# What makes a Software Engineer?

## Intro
Hi, I'm Ashok, and I'm here to talk to you about some qualities that make a
good software engineer.

## Problem Solving
I'd like to start by asking a question:

What do software engineers spend most of their time doing?

 * **Problem Solving**
 * Writing Code
 * Using Computers

So software engineers spend most of their time solving problems: thinking,
breaking problems down into smaller ones, and finding patterns. This is
actually a lot like maths: Maths is just another way to describe problems and
find patterns.

## Communication
After we find the solution to our problem, we usually type it up, as a computer
program. When we write these programs, who do we write them for? Who reads
them?

 * The computer
 * **Other Software Engineers**

This is another quality of a software engineer: good communication skills.
We need to communicate with the computer but we also need to communicate with
other software engineers. The catch is that we communicate with both through
the programs we write, and computers and people need different things.

The best solutions for communicating with people are the simplest: We want
other people to understand the way our solution works. For example, when we
were writing programs to draw our shapes earlier, at first our program was
quite inflexible: We could draw triangles but if we wanted to draw squares we
needed to change quite a few things, and shapes with even more sides took even
more changing. The solution we finally came up with was much more flexible,
although the code was simple, it could do a lot.

## Attention to Detail
Communicating with computers is a different matter entirely. Computers don't
care how complicated their instructions are, they will still follow them. But,
unlike people, computers will not be able to understand when we as programmers
make mistakes, so when we communicate with computers we must be *precise*.

## Teamwork
There is one final quality that I want to talk about, and this one is
**really** important. Does anybody have any ideas what it could be?

The one I was looking for was *teamwork*. Big programs are almost never
programmed by a single person, so, just like any other profession, software
engineers must be good at working together.

## Recap

 * Problem solving
 * Good at Maths and Logic
 * Communication
 * Attention to Detail
 * Teamwork

Questions?
